Welcome to the final race of the 2024 Championship! It's Round 24 at Yas Marina Circuit in Yas Island,
near Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. We've got an exciting weekend ahead of us! McLaren and
Ferrari both have the chance to win the constructors' championship, but McLaren looks better placed
to take it.

This weekend's Race Director is Rui Marques and the Technical Delegate, as always, is Jo Bauer. The
stewards for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix are Felix Holter, Derek Warwick, Loïc Bacquelaine, and Mohammed
Al Hashmi.

## Silly Season Summary

There are a few changes ahead of the weekend. Esteban Ocon (#31) will not be racing this weekend
after Alpine team principal Oliver Oakes reportedly gave him an ultimatum: race this weekend or
participate in the post-season test with Haas. Opting for the latter, Jack Doohan (#61) will be taking
his seat early.

It's also a few drivers' final race in Formula 1 for the time being with Kevin Magnussen (#20),
Valtteri Bottas (#77), Zhou Guanyu (#24), Liam Lawson (#30), and Franco Colapinto (#43) not having seats next season.
This is the last race with their teams for a few drivers, most notably Lewis Hamilton (#44) who is
leaving his team of eleven years, Mercedes, to join the Maranello squad at Ferrari alongside Charles
Leclerc (#16). He replaces Carlos Sainz (#55) who is headed to Williams to take Logan Sargeant (#2)
and now Colapinto's seat. Ocon is headed to Haas, where will he drive alongside
Oliver Bearman (#87). Nico Hulkenberg (#27) is leaving Haas for Kick Sauber, before they transition
to the Audi F1 team in 2026. He will be partnered with Gabriel Bortoleto, both of whom are
replacing Bottas and Zhou. Pierre Gasly (#10) will be partnered with Doohan at Alpine, while George
Russell (#63) will be partnered with Kimi Antonelli.

The 2025 season will see four rookies join F1: Antonelli, Bearman, Doohan, and Bortoleto.

A few seats remain in the air, such as Doohan's, who might be replaced by Colapinto. A seat at one
of Red Bull's teams might also be up for grabs considering Sergio Perez (#11)'s recent poor performances
and the lack of a confirmed seat for Liam Lawson (#30).
